# Project-Earth
COSC 480 major project
@author Jennifer Mince, Karl Maier, Wesley Merrick, Katie Vervack, Toby Duncan, Katie Kessler

The main goal of this project was to use the Actuaries Climate Index data set to answer our central question: how do the seasonal components of high temperature, low temperature, heavy rain, and drought affect the seasonal sea levels in North American regions, and by how much? Rising sea level is a threatening force that greatly impacts local and global environments. Many populations live in an area that would be significantly damaged by impending flooding. Destructive storms, coastal flooding, shoreline erosion, and destroyed ecosystems, industries, and infrastructure are all results of rising sea levels. Roads, bridges, power plants, and other important components of human life are not currently equipped to handle this threat. 
Using this data, our group could help this societal need by introducing a model for the rate at which the sea levels are increasing, and calculating factors that contribute to the increase in levels. The data set has an Actuary Climate Index (ACI) created with the components: frequency of temperatures above the 90th percentile (T90), frequency of temperatures below the 10th percentile (T10), maximum rainfall per month in five consecutive days (Rx5), annual maximum consecutive dry days (CDD), frequency of wind speed above the 90th percentile (WP), and sea level changes (SL). The index is an educational tool designed to help inform actuaries, public policymakers, and the public on changes in these measures over recent decades.  It is an objective measure of changes in extreme weather and changes in sea level relative to the base period of 1961 through 1990. Using the Anaconda interpreter and Python 3, we created code in linear regression and random forest regression models of each component vs. sea level for each region per season. We found some trends for certain seasons or regions, but no trends over components or regions as a whole. Hopefully, our data analysis can be used to further predict sea-level rise if the Actuaries Climate Index is updated with more years and features to create larger data sets to make it easier to make predictive conclusions. 


Python 3
Using Anaconda interpreter these are included or using pip install: numpy, panda, scikit-learn, SciPy 